# Monitoring covid cases across England from 2020 to 2021
Data
[Shapefile](-https://geoportal.statistics.gov.uk/datasets/127c4bda06314409a1fa0df505f510e6_0/explore?location=50.499108%2C0.348505%2C5.00)
[Covid 19](https://ukhsa-dashboard.data.gov.uk/covid-19-archive-data-download)
## Introduction
Covid-19 “Coronavirus Disease 2019,” an infectious disease caused by novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. The virus first surfaced in Wuhan, China, towards the end of 2019. It spreads mostly by respiratory droplets that are released when an infected person talks, sneezes, or coughs (Mohan & Vinod, 2020). On January 29, 2020 covid19 was first confirmed in England. And initial cases were from international travellers resulting in escalating cases by local transmission. In response to rising cases on march 2020 national lockdown was announced in England to control the spread.

This study focuses on monitoring monthly COVID-19 cases admitted in England. The data used for this study is sourced from UKSHA, which contains health data across England. For this analysis, data on COVID-19 cases and deaths from June 2020 to January 2021 are utilized. The COVID-19 cases data includes new cases admitted, and the death data comprises new deaths recorded on daily basis at the Upper Tier Local Authority (UTLA) level. In this context, England's COVID-19 data has been recorded across 149 UTLA levels. And England shapefile data is acquired from Office for National Statistics. The actual aim of this dashboard is to show the users varying spatial and temporal pattern of covid cases across England this makes user understand on which period and on which place covid was relatively high and vice versa. Integration of the COVID-19 data and England shapefile on UTLA level, visualises the COVID-19 data on a map. In order to create a temporal map on monthly basis total number of cases and deaths recorded on each months are summed to create a monthly report on COVID-19 data.
